foreign
[Music]
to manage cancer
so I'll be talking today about cancer as
a mitochondrial metabolic disease and
show you evidence that it cannot be what
most people think is that it's a genetic
disease and I'll show you the evidence
on both
theoretical and experimental
so
the way I like to begin my presentations
on this subject
is to always show you the report covered
how we're doing in our intent to manage
cancer
so
um I've been accumulating this
information for more than 15 years with
the hope that we might be able to see at
some point
drug and the number of people dying each
year and each day in the United States
from cancer so these are the data from
the American Cancer Society again
looking at 2013 to 2012 new cases deaths
per year you get the number of deaths
per day by simply dividing debts per
year by 365 you get an estimate of how
many
each day for the cancer
you'll notice there is a Relentless
increase in new cases the numbers of
people dying from cancer is pretty much
similar to the population increase which
is about 5.2 percent over these same
years in the United States of course
none of this is really super accurate
the problem here as you can see from
looking at these numbers we're not
really making any major progress in
dropping the number of people dying each
day and each year from cancer we raise
all this money that you hear about
billions of dollars the NIH private
foundations we don't seem to get any
really big drop right
um I put there the pink ribbon Susan
Coleman Foundation
you know you put pink ribbons
people run bike CrossFit I don't know
what they do raising money to breast
cancer and the more money we raise for
cancer the more cancer we gain
Susan Coleman
uh for breast cancer raises all this
money
and breast cancer in women has now
surpassed heart disease as the number
one killer of American women thank you
Susan Coleman okay this is another paper
that we've mentioned for something
the Food and Drug Administration has
approved 92 drugs from 2000 to 2016. and
um as you can see they've had only a
marginal benefit in overall survival
which is ultimately what is the key the
key to knowing whether something works
is whether or not it keeps you alive
longer quality of life
and what we're seeing here from all the
millions of dollars that we have spent
on cancer drugs we only see about a 2.4
month Improvement in overall survival
okay and then what we know is from these
from a number of these drugs
is that you can also get hyper
Progressive disease which
which mentioned
but which means that if you take one of
these drugs there's a
significant probability that you will
die from the drug before the cancer
kills you okay so
and we also don't know
in any good statistical way how many
people are dying from the treatments
rather than actually from the cancer
that's another piece of evidence that's
blurred we don't really know about that
what is going on why no progress
what causes a growth regulated normal
cell to become a growth dysregulated
cancer cell dysregulated cell growth is
what we call it's what cancer is
it's and I'm going to show you evidence
hard evidence that it's mitochondria
under your damage that leads to the
origin of cancer and in this little
diagram of the cell uh you see the
mitochondrion I've pointed out in the
nucleus these are the two Morgan bills
within the cell that we need to focus on
to better understand the origin of
cancer
cancer arises from damage to the
respiration of the cell that little heat
shaped organelle the mitochondria is
responsible for us getting energy so
that every one of you looking at me you
can understand or at least see that I'm
here
because without energy nothing works
so that little organelle can be damaged
from oncogenic viruses radiation
carcinogens and the environment hypoxia
chronic inflammation rare inherited
mutations whatever it is there's a whole
range of things that could chronically
ability of the cell to generate energy
when that damage happens
what's produced for Ros reactive oxygen
species these are radical oxygen forms
they damage DNA protein and lipids so
what you see in the nucleus somatic DNA
mutations and most other abnormalities
seen in cancer are Downstream effects of
these raw seduced damage to the nucleus
so the question we have to ask ourselves
should we be focusing on Downstream
phenomena
or the actual origin of what caused the
downstream problems that's the key here
so again we encapsulate our approach to
managing or understanding Nature by
using theories so the scientific theory
is simply an attempt to explain the
facts of nature reality is replicated it
is based on replicated facts where the
interpretation of the facts is based on
incredible theories so we can look back
in history and we can see how these uh
facts have been interpreted the
heliocentric theory of Copernicus
Galileo and Kepler could better explain
the movement of celestial bodies and put
geocentric theory of Aristotle and
helenine
The Germ theory of Lewis passenger could
explain better the origin of contagious
diseases they put the bad air in the
asthma theory of Hippocrates and Galen
the Darwin Wellness theory of evolution
by natural selection could better
explain the Origin of Species than could
the theory of special creation
what I'd like to introduce to you today
is Ken the mitochondrial metabolic
theory explain better the origin of
management of cancer than tender somatic
mutation Theory we're going to now
compare and contrast I can consider the
last
just as important
to man's knowledge as the first three
because it deals with life and death
issues critically so what do we consider
cancer today is a genetic disease it's a
current dog the dog was if I told us a
very powerful force on the brain
consider political and religious Dogma
we have Dogma in science just as well
the gene theory of cancer is a Dogma
cancer is a genetic disease
and weinberg's papers that was cited in
the scientific literature over 76 000
times the Hallmarks of cancer have been
cited cancer cells carry the oncogenic
and tumor suppression mutations that
Define cancer as a genetic disease no
question irrefutable truth it's in all
the textbooks biochemistry cell biology
you name it even from high school
through college for medical school
cancer is a genetic disease no other
pixelination this has indoctrinated now
generations of Sciences
okay here's again from the National
Cancer Institute webpage first name how
cancer arises cancer is a genetic
disease that is caused by changes in
genes that control the way our cells uh
grow and divide so again we're
solidifying the data
how do we do this somatic mutation
mutations in genes that inhibit or
stimulate cell division contribute to
cancer the definition of cancer is cell
division out of control that is the
definition of cancer we have two
competing theories to explain this
one is a somatic mutation Theory and I
will be describing the mitochondrial
metabolic Theory and I'll leave it up to
you folks to see what you think might be
the right answer of this so we have we
have code mutations and tumor suppressor
genes and proto-mongle genes that lead
to cell division out of control we can
further say that somatic mutations
accumulation are random remember random
somatic mutations cause the development
of a cancer cell so you see the normal
cell
on the left here and eventually some
what this mutations act whatever it is
you eventually get a malignant cell
growing out of control and here's here's
a quote from Dr vogelstein of Johns
Hopkins University we now know precisely
what causes cancer
sequential series of alterations
well-defined driver driver driver driver
jobs we have a lot of Passenger genes
and then we have these driver genes
remember this is the so not all
mutations are equally there but the
drivers are considered the ones that
cause dysregulated silver
and as a result of all this we get
personalized so where where are the
somatic mutation theory has morphed is
morphed into personalized Precision
medicine you hear these terms there's
Precision medicine we know you're a
cancer we have just the things
so the woman is looking into the screen
looking uh to see if these breast cancer
cells have extra copies of a particular
Gene maybe what they think maybe it has
some prognostic group therapeutic value
we don't know the problem is when you
take that tissue to get that information
that that woman is looking at if you run
the risk of inflammatory Uncle taxes
when you stab a tumor or a piece of
tissue you change the micro environment
in that tumor so what you're looking at
on that screen May no longer be relevant
to what's going on in the tissue they
took the information from
besides the information that she used
look is largely irrelevant
I don't expect you to see this
but there's two things I want you to see
he had cancer now said okay why I put
this on here
because the conflict of interest
statement
three times longer than the abstract of
the paper
what is going on with that
that's all
a lot of conflict of interest
so the current dilemma is how can we
advance new
therapies for cancer management and
prevention if the 800 pound gorilla
thinks the cancer is a genetic disease
he says Dogma rules who's controlling
the Dogma National Cancer Institute and
the American and pharmaceutical cancer
Industries
you're talking about a bigger than an
800 pound gorilla
okay so what happens when you challenge
the Dogma
I don't want to look at it
I don't want to talk about it I don't
want to hear about it
and that's so the bottom line ignore it
that's what we do we ignore
now let me run by you some evidence that
I've collected over the years that
challenges the somatic mutation theory
of cancer
so beautiful Bovary published an article
of 1914. where he outlined his
speculative idea that cancer may have
something to do with abnormal
chromosomes but he made it very clear
he said I know nothing about cancer
I'm an interloper I'm just speculating
and probably everything that I'm telling
people in that essay is probably wrong
nevertheless he's the father of the
somatic mutation theory he knew nothing
about cancer
now we have new evidence for genomic
sequencing we're not finding mutations
in some cancer cells this is wearing a
nutrient type the way close to that
invitation but we have some cancer cells
they can't find any music
and now the latest information is coming
out cancer driver genes found in normal
cells
what the hell does that mean I just told
you drive for genes are driving the
dysregulated cell growth so now we're
taking tissue from young people and
older people look at all the tiger genes
and people never get cancer how can you
explain driver changes that don't form
cancer how can you explain cancer cells
with no mutations what do we do with
evidence that doesn't fit the theory
ignore it
some carcinogens don't cause mutations
like asbestos doesn't cause mutations
but everybody knows asbestos causes
cancer okay
we have our closest biological relative
that chimpanzee similar to us at 98
percent protein agency
there's never going to document the case
of breast cancer in a female chimpanzee
okay uh what's going on with that breast
cancer is now overtaken heart disease in
killing America significance cancer
what's going on he's not he's actually
living in the same diet lifestyle he did
when he first evolved as a species
also Aboriginal tribes that we uncover
rarely do they have cancer so they're
living in diet lifestyle issues that
they
they had as their past
we have we know we've been a static
cancer without mutations and the nuclear
mitochondrial transfer experiments put
an analysis often and I'll talk about
that in a minute as soon as I as I have
a chance to move this okay I wrote this
paper in 2015 my chapter uh 11 in my
book cancer is a mitochondrial metabolic
disease all I did was go back into
literature and reevaluate the data from
all of these top quality bio
developmental biologists the best in the
world developmental biologists they were
collected they were asking a question
can the nucleus of the supercell direct
normal development and it can up to a
point none of them
were asking the question do these data
that I'm collecting
influence whether we consider cancer a
genetic nuclear mutation disease or a
mitochondrial metabolic disease because
they were all indoctrinated by the Dogma
they didn't think about an alternative
so this is one of the most beautiful
series of experiments because the
experiments were done in an unbiased way
they weren't testing what I'm talking
about they were just asking whether
nucleus could direct normal development
and it could as I said up to a point and
then if the organism would implode
because of the genetic mutations in them
so if I don't have the time to go
through all of the beautiful experiments
to support what I'm saying summarize
this this has been all over the web Now
by a lot of people
um and I've and I've put it so you can
see green cells they get green cells
normal cells give rise to more normal
cells and they are growth uh regulated
so green they have normal genomes they
have normal mitochondria give raised and
regulated growth the tumor cells be
getting more tumor cells that are
dysregulated we all know that they're
mostly mutations in the nucleus that the
mitochondria are also defective so uh is
it the mutations in the nucleus or is it
the mitochondrial problems in the
cytoplasm that's leading to dysregulated
cell growth so this has been addressed
beautifully so you take the nucleus from
the tumor cell
two cytoplasm the normal mitochondria lo
and behold if you get growth regulation
despite the continued presence of the
mutations in the nucleus on the other
hand if you take the nucleus from a
normal cell and put into cytoplasm of a
tumor cell you either get dead cells to
support cells that are dysregulated in
their growth cancer cells this is the
done over and over again also
mitochondrial transfer experiments take
normal mitochondria put in the two and
you get growth regulation these data say
that it's not the nucleus not the
mutations that are causing the cancer
it's that it's the defects of the
mitochondria that are causing the cancer
you have to put these experiments
together with all the other stuff that I
just told you about
and anybody with any functional brain
cells can see that it can't be a nuclear
genetic disease
so somatic mutations are not the origin
how do we get cancer where do they come
from not a Warburg the famous and German
scientists from the last century said a
long time ago almost 100 years ago
cancer arises from chronic damage and
cellular respiration
Supreme energy
take a deep breath okay oxygen comes in
and I'm able to speak and I'm able to
think uh you know as much as I can
energy but however what happens in the
cancer cell is they replace energy
through oxygen with energy through
fermentation energy through fermentation
is is without oxygen cancer cells don't
need oxygen okay if you have a tumor in
the body and you drink cyanide you're
dead but the tumor is still alive
these experiments have been done by
Warburg and others they don't need
oxygen
why because their their cells have
shifted from oxidative phosphorylation
to substrate level phosphorylation which
is a fermentation mechanism that goes
back to the earliest days of Life on our
planet 2.5 billion years before oxygen
came into the eyes cancer cells are
simply falling back on Ancient
now of course there was a lot of
brouhaha about orberg and all what he
did but it was a con there was confusion
because we at Boston College have
identified glutamine as the second major
fermentable fuel everybody knows in the
cancer field glutamine is a powerful
driver of cancer but they didn't know
the mechanism they assumed it was
perspired no glutamine is fermented this
fills the missing
more very Central theory that cancer is
a mitochondrial metabolic disease now
what we do know
is that when you look at a tumor every
cell in that tumor has a different
constellation of genetic mutations but
every cell in that tumor is a fermenter
the role fermenting regardless of what
their genetic profiles are if we know
that we know how to kill them
because there's only two fuels that the
tumor cell can use to ferment and it's
the sugar glucose and the amino acid
glutamine
okay what's the evidence of what I just
told you right
if you look at the normal mitochondria
beautiful Stripes electron micrograph
look at those stripes huh they're loaded
with the proteins of the lipids that
drive oxidative phosphorylation so we
can get energy from the oxygen that we
think in here's a little it tells you
what the whole thing is here look at
they have no cristae in there structured
determines function how is it possible
for this mitochondria missing the key
elements necessary for ox class it won't
be able to get Ox fast because
structure determines function
's function look at here's for breast
cancer
normal breasts up beautiful Stripes
breast tumor look at the vacuoles
disrupt disrupted Christine and look at
this colorectal cancer all these These
are vacuoles mitochondria that have no
structure determines function it's an
evolutionary conserved process in
general biology structure determinants
function
you see this now what I did is I went
through all the major chances
and I looked at was killing about 90 85
to 95 of people had died from these
groups
and all of them have structural the
abnormalities the mitochondria
abnormalities and the number structure
and function of the mitochondria meaning
that none of these cancers are going to
be able to generate energy through
breathing hot spots it's going to be
fermented we're going to have to ferment
because the structure is needed for hot
spots are defective
and we can summarize it with this
diagram right here which is which is
very clear here's a normal mitochondria
with stripes most of our energy comes
from oxidative phosphorylation very ink
we get a little bit from these substrate
level phosphorylation but during the
formation of a dysregulated tumor oxlast
is replaced by substrate level
phosphorylation I have all the pathways
I just don't want to bore you with all
the credible evidence to support going
from and look at here's the
phytochondria of the tumor cells missing
Christine you get a very close
relationship between fermentation and
malignancy the more the more
fermentation the more malignancy
with fermentation the more malignancy
and they end up with very little Ox
spots if any so these guys are raging
fermenters cancer cells are raging for
mentors they don't need oxygen for this
this the other thing too is the
mitochondria controlled the cell cycle
mitochondria determine whether the cells
should be quiescent or whether the cell
should grow in a normal way when that
organelle becomes defective these cells
grow out of control as long as they have
fermentable
in the micro environment that drives up
proliferation it's very hard to stop
them
so if most if most cancer cells obtain
energy through fermentation then what
therapies might be effective for
managing and preventing tumors one
approach is reduce the fuel reduce the
fuel and replace it with non-fermentable
fuels okay not that complicated
so here's an example of what we do okay
so we use diet therapies and lower blood
sugar with calorie restriction water
only fasting restricted ketogenic diets
they will lower blood sugar and as a
conserved evolutionary conservation when
you stop eating you start mobilizing
Ketone bodies the fats out of
adipocytics
your cells can't use Ketone bodies time
you need a good mitochondria that or
acetone bodies and fatty acids food
cells don't have that so you'll lower
the blood sugar Elevate the ketones and
the cancer cells now start to drop out
is grow very slow we build we publish
the glucose Ketone index calculator to
allow cancer patients to know what they
need to do to get into the Zone where
they put pressure on the survival of the
tumor cells so if you have if you have
numbers of 2.0 or below you're starting
to take tremendous pressure on the
availability of those cells to use the
one of their two key fuels which is
sugar glucose so you'll lower the cancer
cell needs glucose can't grow very well
without it if God don't lower the
glucose and then force me to Ketone
bodies which you can't use
we built this the outline of our new
third strategy for managing cancer this
is called the present pulse
therapy what we do in this case the
cancer patient comes in he has cancer
diabetes all kinds of other things we
immediately look at the blood work of
moving the blood work bring that picture
as best we can back into metabolic
homeostasis using a variety of different
glucose lowering diets and things okay
we also manage stress stress management
people are freaked out but cancer that
blood sugar goes up they get old
depressed and everything you've got to
manage that to keep your sugars down
then once the patient starts to get into
the zika Zone we then hit them with very
low doses of non-toxic drugs that
further put pressure on glucose and
glutamine the only two fuels driving the
Beast we use hyperbaric oxygen at
hyperbaric oxygen can replace radiation
by increasing Rost and tumor cells so we
move the patient from a state of
this to a state of management okay in
that managed State now we have a chance
because the tumors are growing slower we
have a chance to strategize how we can
how we can get rid of them okay and
eventually we either maintain long-term
management with a good quality of life
or even possible resolution which I'll
show you evidence for and that
use the situation to improve this to
make it work for the majority of people
it's basically dosage timing and
scheduling of these different combos to
work this out for the best this is not
sexy science
NIH doesn't fund this stuff
it's not sexy but it keeps people alive
and I don't consider anything wrong with
that
now here's a direct example of I have
this paper now under review for
publication
um this dog was a pit bull uh it was it
at seven years old it had a mass cell
tumor a malignant Mast Cell they have
all the same kind very similar kinds of
mutations that you see in some human
tumors the dog was eating Old Roy dog
food developed a mast cell tumor the pet
parent said oh I'm going to give the dog
a vegan diet or vegetables after two
years the tumor exploded to it much
bigger
turmeric uh scratched their head and say
you know where does this dog come from
comes from the wolf what do wolves
eating
so um she she immediately transitioned
the diet away from raw vegetables to uh
chicken with the bone in it or fish oil
raw egg cut the calories down uh this is
exactly what we've done in the mouse for
a long time and lo and behold this big
ass tumor came a spot a little black
spot here's his face here's the dog see
him hearing he's got in the face here's
his nose here's where the tumor used to
be now this um what's interesting about
this
they still get just a few months is this
thing disappeared the dog died at 15
years of age longer than most pit bulls
from heart failure the tumor never came
back okay so I could go for hours on the
mechanisms by which all this happened
but this is the evidence the evidence is
the dog was resolved of his aggressive
tour and the patient who the the owner
of the dog said I don't want my dog they
got chemo and radiation which is going
to cost ten thousand dollars to make
your thoughts sick the dog did not use
chemo and radiation only a raw meat diet
now let's talk about humans okay this is
the tumor that we've been focusing on
Julio blastoma very deadly human cancer
median survival which is very important
10 to 15
now we go to the next one here
okay here's an example of what this
horrible tumor is you can see an old
discoloration midline shift causes an
intracranial pressure intracranial
pressure as it kills most of the folks
with with glioblastoma the tumor cells
invade through the entire neural
parenchyma uh they go they use blood
vessels as a track system they go along
these darker purple cells here darker
purple are around blood vessels so the
tumors seed the entire cortex so that's
why you can never surgically secure it
gdm because the tumors are already out
there and what they continue to do
despite all the evidence that I said not
to do they give a vascular avastin is
supposed to block blood vessels tumors
don't care they move right through in
fact the more of acid to give the more
infiltration you go through the brain
can you believe this is
now this is an interesting thing in
relationship to whatever we heard
earlier from Greg and others the
irreproducibility of science right
size can't be reproduced
at Rome not always
there's nothing more reproducible that
how fast people die when they're treated
with the standard of care
this is the results of five independent
surgical institutions in Canada and I
have the same same survival curves from
our institutions Theta fiber MD Anderson
Sloan Kettering you got the same thing
in Japan Germany England the best of my
whereas you're going to get a profile
that looks like this okay no improvement
in a hundred years
I think about that
we we have the red telescope a million
miles from Earth circling getting us to
look for the very origin of our universe
and yet we've made no improvement in
glute blasto in 100 years what the hell
is going on with that
can you believe it
okay I'll tell you what happened
it's diagnosed with glioplastoma
uh we cut it out and then as soon as the
patient recovers from the cutting the
debulging we then irradiate the guy's
brain which creates massive elevation of
blood sugar because the brain smells
from the radiation we give the guy high
dose steroids which also create
hyperglycemia and when we irradiate the
brain we break the very sensitive
glutamine glutamate cycle which is a
part of our neurons is clear freeing up
massive amounts of glutamine to feed the
beast
and not only that about 80 percent of
these tumors are laced with room inside
of megalovirus which is like a
turbocharger for the tumor cells to use
glucose of glutamine
okay
and this is a little document I wrote
article after article after article
describing the molecular mechanisms by
what's going on inside this guy's head
when you treat them with standard of
care okay here it is again
um over and over again we get the same
results what did Einstein say doing the
same thing over and over again expecting
a different outcome is insanity
why does this not change
how many people have died as the result
of this absurdity
and continue to die
so to test the hypothesis
if we say that glucose and glutamine are
the two fuels that drive the piece why
don't we design an experiment to test
the hypothesis that if we simultaneously
Target the two fuels we will be able to
significantly improve overall survival
so we developed the best animal models
of glioblasta what we do at the animal
model first and then we can go to Human
so we use the drug 60 oxymoralucine
which is a glutamine targeting drug and
we give the animals the calorie
restricted ketogenic diet to lower the
blood sugar so we lower the blood sugar
we Elevate ketones to protect the normal
cells so they're neural protective and
then we give them posts of dawn uh which
targets the glutamine so I'm not gonna I
have beautiful biochemical hard evidence
but I'm just show you the final result
the test hypothesis so the blue line of
the animals that ate the high carb diet
and go treatment so they die real quick
you can see how fast
okay the ketogenic diet by itself did
include a modest level of improvement
but you're not targeting the glutamate
with the ketogenic diet the drug gone
had also some level of improvement but
you're not targeting the glucose but the
thought when you add the diet with the
drug you get really good saliva and
we're pushing this way out now way out
and we're going to test it in humans and
we're starting to see very similar kinds
of responses even more spectacular than
the mice humans are much better to use
these metabolic therapies than the mouse
the mouse's basal metabolic rate is
seven times faster than that at the
human okay but they get 20 of their food
a day can you believe body weight 20 of
their body weight for food a day you
know we have so much more flexibility to
make this work in humans than in the
most so our first attempt was this guy
from Egypt a guy with the glioblastoma
corn farmer he comes in my cup my good
colleague I work with the
so he calls me up he said we got a
patient let's do this present I said
fine so let's uh we we gave him some
fasting and keto he added an awake
cranial underneath the develop the tumor
we kept them on for another three weeks
uh restricted diets you know we weren't
really hitting glutamine too hard but he
was doing good we kept pushing off the
radiation so he said Osaka calls me up
and he says we got to wear radiator now
I said why he said oh we have to do it
stay in their care says You must have
radiate everybody in the United States
or Egypt workers got already at every
cancer patient brain cancer so we took
all the radiation and the tennis only he
did pretty good went back out started
working the field we published the paper
we're all excited so Osaka calls it up
and he says he's got headaches now at 29
months following diagnosis and he dies
at 30 minutes
so they did an autopsy on his brand and
what they found he died from Radio
necrosis brain liquefication
so provocative question
the ketogenic metabolic therapy uh
replaced the standard of care in my
opinion we're not going to move the deal
on this gbn patients until we abandon
the radiation of the frame
why is
this so we use examples
Brittany okay a beautiful young lady
here diagnosed with low grade low grade
tumor in early January of 2014. within
two weeks it exploded into a
glioblastoma
inflammatory income taxes so here's it
with a husband she starts the standard
of care I want you to look carefully
here she is here before the treatment
here's after or while she's being
treated you see the puffy face that's
called moon phase from accelerated
elevated levels of steroids you give the
steroids you get a consequence of blue
stress indicates that her blood sugars
are very very high well she knows the
outcome she decides to take her own life
death With Dignity big article in People
magazine I'm going to kill myself rather
than go through the standard of care
okay it's pretty bad when your patients
would kill themselves rather than take
your treat but that's what happened now
this little guy is Danny Sheen uh Danny
was diagnosed with Pioneer which is a
childhood glioblastoma in 2017.
and daddy passed away in 2021 but look
at Danny's face
you see how puffy it is here he is with
his favorite toy he died a week after
this picture
um this is a tragedy
this should not happen
we we are working now for support from
the British Childhood Cancer fund to we
have a diet drug therapy that will allow
these kids to live a far longer high
quality of life we collected the data
down and it's going to be a crime if
they don't use that now here's Pablo
Kelly
uh from Devon England he was diagnosed
the same time as Britney he wanted no
radiation no no chemo no you're going to
be dead Pablo in nine months he has a
story you could read into all these
French newspapers and things
he doesn't want any of that he's I'm
going to take my risk so he goes on
metabolic therapy and
um three years that he's still alive in
three years but his tumor is there it's
not gone it's still growing but it's
very much more indolent than it was so
he gets it to both in 2017. uh he
thought he was at it he goes back into a
few more cars uh all of a sudden we see
the images on the MRI go up moves Pablo
boom he goes right back I have five
years of daily glucose Ketone monitoring
from Papa let's published in the paper
you can read it making sure the data
that we have and back down comes the
tumor manager so he's had another
debunking but in the time from diagnosis
he's over eight and a half years out now
he's had got married and he's had two
kids and he's still getting on with his
life we didn't cure Pablo but Pablo is
living a hell of a lot longer than he
would have if he did stand there I don't
know if there's anything what's wrong
with that
thank you
[Applause]
they're making it sound like I'm the bad
guy
now what you say well what about other
cancers well we published this paper on
a guy with uh lung cancer not small cell
lung cancer very deadly went to the
guy's liver and brain my colleague even
at this even giulio from Greece he's got
this guy out nine years you should have
been dead a long time ago uh here's one
from triple negative breast cancer this
woman was given but from Cleveland Ohio
she was given one month to live she took
all kinds of radiation chemo they said
there's nothing there's nothing more we
could do like they always say so she
goes to our my colleague's clinic in
Istanbul they give her children died in
the emergency from
the travel almost killed her she had to
be resuscitated in the emergency room
for two weeks finally she gets you know
out and they do uh modified chemo
ketogenic diet and uh last year we got
pictures of her with her husband in
Hawaii loving life
anecdotal right it's a fluke it's a
fluke it's a fluke
and of one right and a one you put
parachute on a guy 100 guys jump out
without the parachute one guy has the
parachute and it won
got to do a double blind crossover to
make sure it's real
and then I wrote this thing on prostate
cancer so uh that why are we using the
chemical castration and all this crazy
I mean you can you can get really
good uh evidence with a metabolic
therapy this is a danger right everybody
likes to ignore everything
so um
so what we have here is GBM and other
stage four what we call terminal cancers
should not be considered
treated with ketogenic metabolic therapy
standard of care is the dark side Pablo
Kelly is the bright side so we published
this paper
can the mitochondrial metabolic theory
of cancer explain better the origin and
management and can the somatic mutation
Theory so I I kind of was very
provocative
showing that the geocentric theory that
was people struggled with for a long
time and look at all the all the crazy
elliptical things that they try to put
together when the Earth was the center
of the of the solar system when you put
the sun in the center everything makes
sense right
so you put the mitochondria in the
center of the cancer problem and
everything's going to make sense
we won't be lost
with all the immunotherapies Katrina
optivo cartibial therapies or all this
kind of stuff
I don't know anybody who's died from
ketogenic metabolic therapy
most cancers including glioblastoma is a
mitochondrial metabolic disease cancer
is not a genetic disease get over it
it's a Reliance that substrate the most
phosphorylation and I have all the
degree in my papers I have all the heart
evidence to support that the
simultaneous restriction of glucose and
glutamine while other nutritional
ketosis can help manage most if not all
cancers the Press pulse metabolic
therapy is a non-toxic cost-effective
strategy for the possible management of
most cancers especially glioblastoma and
some of these these other cancers that
are
red we're starting a global Society for
metabolic therapy I've got folks really
good Physicians and scientists in
numbers of countries that all want to
get on board and say how do I do this
what am I going to do there's also a
documentary film coming out for the
stuff that we developed at DC showing
how many people are surviving it's not
just a few flukes that I've shown you
Maggie and Brad Jones are collecting
dozens and dozens of people they should
have been dead and they're alive and
they're appreciative of their life and
then how do we get money to do what I do
well again mostly from foundations and
philanthropy okay Travis Foundation of
metabolic cancer therapies George you
Joe maroon Edward Miller uh the Kenneth
Raymond Foundation Greg was so kind and
with the CrossFit organization children
with cancer United Kingdom the corkin
Family Foundation Bob Kaplan my own
University uh the oral Academy and thank
you very much for your attention
thank you